Hi there. In this video, I'm going to
talk about using what we call tab completion
to speed up typing commands and and going
to various paths in your directory structure, etcetera.
And tab completion is, pretty simple. Just means
that whenever you get to a, typing a
file or a path that you know what's
coming, or even if you don't, you can
actually hit the tab key and it will
automatically try to fill in, as best it
can. And if it's unambiguous, it'll be able
to fill in as much as you need
for the, the command. So for instance, I
happen to have a folder here on Myth
that is, let's see, c s one zero
seven. And in c s one zero seven,
actually, let's do a tree on C S
107. On C S 107, it there's actually
a fair amount of things here. It it
has a whole bunch of folders in it.
One is called assignments. And in the assignments
folder, there is another set of folders. Let's
see. What's a good one here? There's assign
one, and then assign one has folder one,
and assign one has file one, etcetera. So
let's do this. If I want to l
s c s one zero seven, now I
just type the c s and watch what
happens when I hit the tab key. Boop.
It fills in the rest of it very
quickly because it happens that there are no
other files in my main directory that are
c s one zero seven. And then, if
I type a and I hit tab again,
it doesn't do anything. But if I hit
tab twice, it will say, oh, okay. You've
got two things that I've been trying to
fill in, both start with an a. So
if I type a s and then tab,
it will fill in the rest of assignments.
Now you'll notice this is actually pretty quick.
If you know where you're going, you can
get there very quickly. Okay. So in assignments,
I think there were a whole bunch of
assignment sign. Yep. So all all the rest
of things started with AS were assign. And
then if I hit tab again, it will
show me all the different choices. So let's
do assign zero and then if I hit
tab, it will fill in the slash for
me. And then I think I had some
things in assign zero started with f. Nope,
maybe not. So let's actually hit tab a
couple times and it will tell us, oh,
there's all our choices. So if I have,
let's say output file, if I type o
u tab, it fills in the rest of
it for me. Okay. So let's actually do,
let's actually change to a directory c d
c s tab, assignments tab assign one tab,
there, and then boom, I got there very
quickly without typing much at all. Okay. And
then c a c d f, and it
will be a folder for me. It it
actually is kind of clever if you do
c d f, it will actually know that
you can't c d into a file, so
it automatically fills in the f for folder.
It fills in the folder part for you.
CD folder two. And if I look at
that, there's nothing in there. CD to go
back. Let's see. CD folder one and in
fact there's nothing in there as well. And
I knew that by just continuing there's no
other folders I could change into. So again,
you can get to a can get to
a folder very quickly without typing much, thanks.
So let's go back to my home directory
and watch this again. CD CS one zero
seven assignments assignment one folder one. Boom. I
got there in about two seconds and I
didn't have to type anything more than the
first character of each one of those names
in the path. So tab completion is super
fast. It's something that you should really start
to use so that you don't sit there
and take all this time typing things in.
Thanks.